# Overview
This repository contains the scripts that I wrote for the Facial Mimicry project. This project, a part of my bacheor's degree in neuroscience, included manipulating and analyzing real-life data from EMG recordings to assess the synchronization between two datasets.

# The project
The project was a part of a larger study that tried to measure synchonization levels between the facial expressions of two interacting subject, in order to predict the outcome of the paradigm. The subjects were seating in front of each other in a room while listening to a story describing a movie. Than they had to choose which story they liked better. The study aimed to develop a mechanism that can monitor the subjects' facial expressions (and smiles in particular) using EMG electrodes, calculate the synchronization between the signals, and predict which story they would choose based on different parameters of the signal. The main parameter - Facial Mimicry, a well known non-verbal cue that is related to social interactions - is the tendancy of people to mimic the facial expressions of other people with whom they interact. One aim of this large study was to test whether facial expressions synchronization 

My part of this study was to develop a mechanism for measuring synchronization levels between the smiles of the two subjects. I used correlation functions to detect the lag between the correlated phases of their smiles, indicating when one subject smiled before or after the smile of the other, as a sign of facial mimicry. Then I combined these calculations to create every individual subject's 'Lead Score' as a measure for what portion of the smiles they were "responsible" for, leading to mimicry by the other subject. I also added a mean 'Correlation Intensity' value for each subject, which is an estimation for how significantly and strongly they ifluenced their counterparts smiles. 
We expected that subjects' leader scores will correlate with their personal traits and social interactions score, measured by psychometric scales using questionnaires. 

# The scripts
The [analysis_main.py](https://github.com/Yuvalb94/Facial_Mimicry_analysis_project/blob/69def89b5064c830d1ec32b058b48d4d377f466e/analysis_main.py) is the main script for running the analysis, whereas the other scripts were written to help analyze some parts of the data (such as the peak and end moments of the story) specifically, or to visualize it.
